# Dragonlance

## September 23, 2023

I prayed to the temple of Solinari, and received a vision from Solinari. During the vision, I found an amulet of
Solinari.

The fishing village of Volgler clings to a small peninsula. Volgler’s people know little of the evil of people of the
world. The locals are intent on kicking off the kingfisher festival and laying Ispin to rest.

We have rooms available at the Brass Crab Inn.

We meet Becklyn Ufveharin. She was good friends with Ispin, and she comes to greet us when we get to the Brass Crab
Inn. She’s glad that we all got her letter, and we will say goodbye to Ispin tomorrow. We’ll meet in the Brass Crab
after the ceremony, and relive stories. Our feast has been paid for.

We find a temple of Solinari.

We met a woman named Cudgel. She was an old friend of Ispin Greenshield. Ispin used to go to their camps and regale them
with stories.

Becklyn speaks at the service. After the service, she tells a story about Ispin. Ispin was asked to recover a weasel
that was hurled, or at least to note its trajectory. Ispin weathered a week locked in the mountain dwarf kingdom.

After the service, a blue skinned Silvinesti elf is sitting in the corner. She arrived a day before anybody else, and
she knew Ispin. She’s a performer, and she sang a sad song. She leaves as soon as she finishes performing her song.

Before we retire for the evening, Becklyn approaches us. She has something that Ispin left for us. She instructs us to
call for her at the Thornwall Keep in the morning.

In the morning, the town is abuzz with the festival. A young man named Darret offers to give us breakfast.

The keep has veins of bronze colored ivy. Becklyn greets us as we enter. “As you see, there’s not much left of the keep
after the cataclysm. However, we are excavating and finding relics of another age.” Becklyn exits then reenters the room
carrying a shallow wooden box. “Ispin left this, and you can have it on one condition.” Ispin wanted us to participate
in the Kingfisher Festival in his stead.

Cudgel goes to the last attacker and says, “what have you done!?”

Gragonus is the attacker who survived. He was paid by someone wearing plate armor with an emblem of Takhisis

We go to the west and find some tracks. We follow them and find a camp occupied by shadowy figures. A significant
military camp is located a few miles northwest of the village. The force is a mixture of humans and other hooded
figures. The hooded figures have wings and other reptilian features. Becklyn says that these figures sound like
Draconians. She's heard rumors that the Dragon Queen is amassing an army. We've heard rumors of attacks, but nothing was
ever confirmed.

Cudgel went to the mercenary camp. They restratiend several soldiers who were loyal to Gragonus but were unable to
participate in th reenactment.

Lord Bacarus joins the group mid-conversation, insulted that he hasn't been involved. "Look! I'm an important man in
town, and I demand to know what's going on!"

Level up to 3 by next week.

## September 30, 2023

Becklyn has heard rumors of the Red Dragon Army decimating cities to the east. We ask if the villagers can seek refuge
in another city. We offer to go to the town of Calaman to see if they will accept refugees. While we were discussing
trying to trick the army into avoiding the town, a messenger arrives.

A human in black and red scale male sits aside a war horse. She asks, "who among you speaks for this village?" They
attempt to force us to quarter the soldiers of the Red Army. The symbol on the meswsenger's armor is a symbol of
Takhisis. We ask how many soldiers. The messenger raises her hand and four dragon soldiers appear on the hill.

Becklyn has heard stories of this army. She believes that they will kill everyone even if we cooperate. She suggests
that we should prepare everyone to evacuate. The only way to get everyone to Calaman would be by boat. We'd have to have
everyone near the wharf.

Keltrick casts heat metal on one of the warriors. He begins to take his armor off and sends one of them to get more
soldiers. Five more soldiers show up, so we have a total of 9. A dwarf comes to the door to tell us that there's a whole
bunch of soldiers on the hill. He offers to help us sneak up on the warriors using an invention called the Gnome
Flinger. The Gnome Flinger was confiscated by Becklyn.

We fought the warriors.

## October 6, 2023

Becklyn leaves us in charge of the villagers. We're tasked with helping them get to the boats. We hear the cries of a
child. A family of four have been separated from each other. Each family member is searching for the others. We ask the
child's name. She says that her name is Samantha. We go to the pier to find her parents, Fred and Wilma.

Cudgel and becklyn leave to check to see if they can do something about the Red Dragon Army. We return to the village to
help more people get to the boats. While we're returning, a Capack Draconian falls out of the sky and attacks us. We
kill the Draconian.

We continue helping villagers onto the boats, and Kari and Eiffa spot some knights on a ridge in the distance. We
dispose of them, but then we hear the sound of clashing metal. The scaled soldiers bait the militia members, luring them
into battle. We're attacked by a boiler drac, which is a machine. We kill the Baz Draconians that are piloting it, and
Eiffa spots a glint of armor. She looks back, and they're gone again. Mayor Raven comes to us and asks if we saw the
horses in the forest. She saw them too. The one on the large horse was wearing very old armor, and it looked like a
skeleton. She thinks it might be the spirit of lord Vogler, but he's been dead for a century.

Eiffa prays to Solinari, who says that these horsemen are spirits sent to watch over us. Just then, an ogre bursts
through the front wall of the Brass Crab. After we dispatch the oger and her minions, we attempt to help the rest of the
villagers. As we help the last of the villagers onto the boats, a man asks us to hold the boat. Jayev said that the
battle with the Red Dragon Army went poorly. Becklyn sent him to ask us to ensure that we don't wait for the
mercenearies. Jayev said that Becklyn and Cudgel were captured by the Red Dragon Army. Darret approaches us and
recognizes Becklyn's helmet. He asks where she is and asks for the helmet.

We board the boat and sail away. Vogler is in flames and we can see raiders looting the houses.

We have to level up to 4 for next week.
