# Mad Mage

## 2025-07-05

I'm at the Yawning Portal asking about going to the Undermountain. An Orc waitress named Pretty serves me a pint of Mead
and tells me that Durnan is the person I should talk to in order to enter. A tall Tabaxi comes in and asks, so I wander
over. Next a Tiefling ranger wanders over to meet us. We pay to enter the portal.

At the bottom of the entry well is a dark 40' square room. The only exit is a tunnel that heads south before bending
west. There's a thick layer of sand covering the floor. On the walls, we see dented rusty shields covered with
graffiti. Aarrrrgggghhhh does an investigation of the room.

Hallow investigates the shields and finds a poem written on the wall:

Beyond the Pillar Forest
The Mad Mage waits
Casting spells
Beyond magic gates.

We follow the hallway and find a slightly wider hallway with reliefs depecting demons. There's also a Kenku skeleton on
the floor. The carvings on the north wall from east to west depict a Balor, a Barlgura, a Chasme, a Dretch, a Glabrezu,
a Goristro, and a Hezrou. The carvings on the south wall from east to west depict a Marilith, a Nalfeshnee, a Quasit, a
Shadow Demon, a Vrock, and a Yochlol. We search by the Kenku and find a secret door. Hallow checks it for traps and
finds none. Aarrrrgggghhhh breaks open the door and we follow a pathway to a sewer. We see a statue that emits a purple
radiance. Hallow shoots it with an arrow, and a Psychic Gray Ooze appears.

We defeat the Gray Ooze and go back up to the main hallway then downstairs. We find room with a bunch of pillars. One of
the pillars has a warning on the south wall that says certain death this way. We decided to go south and we came to a
partially caved-in room containing a dead Orc.

## 2025-07-12

We find a statue of a headless woman in the room where the Orc was laying. There's a door to the west and a double door
to the east. Hallow find the head of the statue and we examine it. It's the head of a cobra with its fangs bared. We
look in the neck of the statue and find nothing. We look in the head of the statue and find a faint purple glow as if
there were some slowly dissipating magic.

Ethelred does a religion check and finds that it's a representation of a deity who is known for being disinterested in
followers except for their continued fealty. There is a trace of venom on the fangs. We decide to leave it be and
explore further.

We investigate the door to the west. There's just a 60' hallway with a door ending at the end of it. The door is closed,
and we hear nothing. Hallow checks for traps and finds a tripwire near the bottom of the door. She disables it, and and
we proceed. There's a small empty room to the west and the hallway continues to the north. Ethelred's familiar scouts to
the north. The hallway turns left again after thirty feet, and enters a large room containing moldy bones that have been
swept into a deep alcove. Hanging from rusty manicles on the wall to the east is a tiefling skeleton missing its
legs. Writtin on the wall in dried blood in Infernal. Ethelred translates it for us, and it says, "Talk to me."

Ethelred invokes her deity to help her speak to the tiefling. The tiefling says it was a mage, cast out of Dweomercore
for using a spell that I stole, and for being a suspected agent of the Arcane Brotherhood. He was killed by the mage
named Halister, and was left here as a decoration. Hey says, "look for the little dwarves under the mountain. One of
them hides the key to my heart." He then slumps over. We all do history checks. Hallow and Ethelred know that Halister
Blackcloak is the mad mage.

In an alcove to the south, I find a dead goblin and search it. I find a pouch containing one gold piece, and next to the
goblin is a scimitar. There's nothing else in the room, but there is a corridor leading north and a door on the left
hand side of the corridor. Ethelred checks for traps; there are none. We open the door and hear a noise that sounds
vaguely electrical. There's a bright violet light that appears to be pulsing. There are two stone pillars with the
skeletal remains of two orcs in the room. The purple pulsating light is a lingering aura of wild magic. Hallow throws a
rock through the aura, and it disappears. We decide to go back to the double doors on the east side of the room
containing the stague. Ethelred checks for traps and find a pressure place. She disables it, and we crack open the
doors, and we see a hallway going to the east and another hallway going south.

The hallway is ten feet wide and ten feet high. After thirty feet the hallway comes to an end at an intersecting
hallway. Ethelred's familiar couts down the hallway. The hallway is lit by floating lights that flicker and produce heat
but not smoke. There are 25 niches along the hallway, each containing two candles. There's wax dripping down the
candles, but it never drips, and the candles are never consumed by the flame. Her familiar looks down the hallway to the
south and finds a maze of corridors. We come to a caved-in section of one of the corridors with four dead goblins. Each
goblin has 10 gold.

At the end of one of the hallways Ethelred's owl finds a gelatinous cube containing many goblin bones, some scimitars,
and some armor. We decide to leave it for now. Ethelred's owl continues to explore and finds nothing but more collapssed
sections of the tunnels. We return to the door in the west tunnel. We find a ten-foot square room, which is empty except
for a pair of white silk gloves that become black for one hour when they come into contact with poison.

We go down the east corridor and Ethelred finds a mirror with a depiction of a wizard wielding a wand ethed into its
frame. Hallow investigates the mage, and the depiction appeared to move a little. It's glowing the same color purple as
the other magic items in the dungeon. When we look into the mirror, we simply see a reflection. We do an arcana check
and learn nothing of interest. Ethelred's owl touches it; the mirror is solid.

We go back to the double doors and follow the hallway to the east. The hallway veers to the north then back to the
east. There are intersections with hallways to the north and south. To the north is just an alcove containing a bass
relief sculpture of a nude heavy-set man playing a harp. There's a broken half of a pole, five feet long. Hallow kicks
the pole and nothing interesting happens. There is an aura of conjuration, but Ethelred does a religion check to see
what this to be. There's an inscription in Common carved into the harp. It says, "Gaze upon me with bronzed visage and
secrets will be revealed. Ethelred uses minor illusion to give herself a bronze face and looks at the image. She sees
the image begin to play the harp and he says, "you are close, but you are not halister. But if you bring back the
Halister mask, you can pass through the alcove."

We follow the hallway to the south and find a door to the east. The door is untrapped and unlocked, so we go through
finding a hallway going north and south. We follow the corridor to the north, and find a room off to the east. There are
two bugbears and six goblins in the room. The bugbears run north as soon as they see us. The goblins attack us
immediately.

## 2025-07-26

We defeat the goblins. And follow the hobgoblins to the north, and follow a curving hallway until we encounter a group
of goblins hiding behind a table. We defeat them as well then investigate a room shaped like a cross with an obilisk in
the center. Solali touches the obilisk and hears a telepathic voice recite the following verse:

    I cast my eye
    Into the future
    And see in yours
    A perilous descent
    South of here
    Beyond a secret passage
    Waits the two-headed king
    Look to his left
    There you will see
    The path you are
    Destined to take.

We spot the two bugbears and defeat them.

## 2025-08-02

We follow the diagonal hallways and come to a door. We didn't detect any traps, so we opened it and found pools of
semi-congealed blood on the floor with dried spatters of blood on the walls and the body of a humanoid
adventurer. Hallow reconigzes that the adventurer is wearing the garb of the Fine Fellows of Daggerford, a well-known
adventuring party. Otherwise, he is carrying nothing of value. There's a ten-foot pit along the north wall. We examine
the pit, and find a revanent, which is an undead humanoid creature. We investigate the room and find an engraving of the
undermountain with 20 dungeon levels. There aren't any details about any of the levels in the engraving. However, there
are three salient features: next to the third level, there's a carving of a flaming skull with somehting that appears to
be a button next to it; next to the sixteenth level is a carving of a comet next to it; next to the 23rd level, which is
the lowest level there's an engraving of a tower with a button next to it.

We push the button with the comet, and we hear a disembodied male voice say "gate access to star dock from level 16
only." We push the button with the skull, and hear "gate access to skull port is disabled." We push the button next to
the tower and hear the same voice say, "gate access to tower port from level 23 only." We continue to search and find
what appears to be a secret door. We push it open and the door opens to the south. We see humanoid footprints in the
dust going to the south. We follow the hallway and come to another secret passage. We enter a thirty-foot tall room
containing a deteriorating granite statue. West of the statue, there's a stairway descending 200 feet to level 2. We
also hear what sounds like a loud distant voice. There are hallway entrances to the east, southeast, and south. We
examine the statue, it depicts a dwarven king with a second head jutting out from its neck, ending with a head that is
nearly featureless and has a toothless mouth.

Following the instructions from the verse, and see a long hallway. The noise that we heard seems to be getting
louder. Looking down the hallway, we see several passages to the west. We Check one of the passageways to the west and
find a dining table with several goblins eating and noisily bickering amongst themselves. We defeat the goblins and
decide that we need to get some rest and some potions. On the way out of the dungeon, we encounter two bugbears who are
being controlled by intellect devourers. We defeat them as well and return to the yawning portal.

## 2025-08-09

We go to the nearest apothecary to purchase some potions. I pick up several healing potions. We go back into the dungeon
and explore the hallway to the west of the diamond-shaped room where we went south last time. We see a hallway with
several niches, each of which contains a mirror in a stone frame on the back wall. There is also a burnt out torch on
the floor in the middle of the corridor. As Salali and Aarggh walk past the last two mirrors, two Shadowy Duplicates
that resemble Halister emerge from the mirrors and attack. We defeat one and the other escapes, then we take a short
rest to regain strength and hit points.

## 2025-08-16

We continue exploring and encounter the Shadowy Duplicate that ran away yesterday. We defeat it and continue exploring
again, and encounter some Bugbears and Intellect Devourers. We defeat them, but Hallow is stunned by an Intellect
Devourer. We have nothing to restore her, so we exit the dungeon, go back to the apothecary, and get a potion of greater
restoration to restore her. We take a long rest before re-entering the dungeon.

## 2025-09-06

After resting, we ask about a cleric. An adventurer comes up to us and offers to join. His name is Dibble. He looks kind
of dumpy, with a chain mail shirt that looks like it was snipped at the bottom and at the sleeves. We allow him to join,
and go down into the dungeon. We go back to the coffin shaped room and head north. We enter a room and look
around. There's a vent in the roof in the middle of the room. Beneath the vent is an unadorned wooden armor stand with a
faintly glowing longsword stabbed into it. We go to explore the hallway to the north; it leads both east and west. We
search to the east first. We continue exploring and find a room containing three stone statues of Waterdepian nobles. At
the base of the middle statue, we see the skeleton of a hobgoblin next to a broken staff. There's a name carved into the
base of each statue: Elendran, Ruathyndar, Onthelass. Each name has been crossed out and replaced by a name in chalk:
Smelly Bottom, Stupid Skull, and Born Toothless. We continue exploring and find a secret door to the north. We go
through the secret door and find a room containing a dozen bedrolls and a mural terrorizing villagers. Another room was
off the edge of this room. It contains a coffin with a hole bored into the foot. We explore another hallway heading to
the west and encounter a seventy-foot high room containing a throne. Each of the throne's boned armrest is carved to
resemble a snake. There are empty torch brackets adorning the walls. The the middle of the room are the bones, and
stinger of a Wyvern. We investigate, and then we hear a door open. Five bandits enter the room, and attack us. We kill
the bandits and continue exploring. The room to the north contains fifteen statues. The twenty-foot high ceiling is
covered in spider webs, and there are three dead spiders amongst the webs. We explore to the west and encounter six
pillars pock marked with tiny indentations the length of the wall. Hallow investigates and sees various colors in
several of the holes. We find the room where the bandits had been staying. We see a table with cards, empty glasses, and
48 gold pieces. We search to the north and find a maggot ridden corpse of a dead human next to a scimitar and a money
pouch. The pouch contains bloodstone, onyx, an emerald, a ruby, and a sapphire. The bloodstone and onyx are worth 50
each. The emerald, ruby, and sapphire, are worth 50 each.

Aarggh investigates the pillars and finds a suit of rusty armor, the remains of an animated guard that was destroyed
years ago. We continue following the hallway and open a door to a closet that is filled with skulls. We continue
following the hallway. We come to the end of the hallway and find a secret door. We open the door, which leads to a room
containing a throne and a chest. There is also a green colored helm lying on the floor. We open the chest and find a
puch containing 5000 gold and a cylindrical tube containing a wand. Dibble recognizes it as the Wand of Secrets. It has
three charges, we can use an action to expend a charge. When used, it pulses and points to any secret door within 30
feet of it.
