# Waterdeep

## 2024-07-20

When we awake after staying the night in the Troll Skull Inn, we go out to discover that a fireball has exploded and
that there are several corpses. We ask around and hear that someone went toward the bent nail. Someone else tells us
that whatever took something out of the gnome's pocket was not a human, but something that looks like a puppet without
strings. We talk to a young boy that has a necklace that fell into a rain barrel.

We start walking toward Troll Skull Alley and the sergeant comes up to us to ask if we were still investigating. Because
of her involvement, Maeve knows that bodies are frequently taken to a local morgue and clerics are brought in to cast
preservation spells. We learn that the description of the thing that took something out of the rock gnome's pocket
sounds like one of the automota that march in local parades.

Maeve speaks to the owner of the bent nail, Tally, a half-elf who tells us that he hasn't had any customers this
morning. The temple of Gond is in the Sea Ward to the west of us. We walk towards the Temple of Gond. The house of
Inspired Hands looks like a combination between a temple and a workshop. A figure on top of one of the spires releases a
bird into the air which does a couple of flips then veers trowards us. The bird hits Mystiq, and we look up to see where
the automaton is gone.

We enter the temple. A dragonborn priestess approaches us and asks us if she can help us. A nimblewright called Nim was
gifted to the temple by a Lantanese Wizard. Nim is unique because it is conscious. We ask if we can speak with Nim. The
priestess offers to have us follow her. A spiral staircase goes up to a door. She tries the door, and it's locked. She
looks confused and says that she doesn't recognize the lock. We open the door and see Nim trying to hide in the back of
the room.

Nim created another nimblewright recently, and believes that they are the onethat attacked us. Nim created a
nimblewright detector that we can use to find the nimblewright that attacked us. If we destroy the other nimblewright,
the temple will give us 500 GP.

## 2024-07-27

We ask Nim if he knows a good place to start looking. The other nimblewright doesn't ahve a name. I look up and see one
of the Gryphon riders flying above the town. Polly has a message to go to Blackstaff. We walk that way, and we don't
notice anything. We see Blackstaff tower. And staring at it give us a queasy feeling and a feeling that we're being
watched. A woman walks out and says that they've been expecting us. She asks us to follow her inside; we simply walk
through the wall and we're inside.

The inside is very clean and orderly. There's a place to leave cloaks, hats and outer footwear. There are steps going up
to some double doors. There are also doorways going to the left and the right. The woman who invited us in goes through
the door in the right. The room that we're in is minimalist. Jester thinks about a unicorn, and a unicorn appears on the
wall then disappears. A woman in black robe with a black staff, not particularly ornate greets us and welcomes us to
waterdeep. We have an invitation to join the wizards.

She asks us if she can help us. We tell her about the nimblewright and ask if she has any leads. We get information
about one of the Gryphon riders. She guides us to the castle ward and gives us the name of a Gryphon rider named
Liutenant George (sp)? We head to the stables and ask about the Liutenant. We notice someone who seems to be in
charge. He has a braided pony tail and a braided beard. He has a somewhat northern accent. Maeve says that she likes his
beard. He asks us how he can help us, and we hand him the note. He offers to train us to ride the Gryphons. We get take
some lessons to get certified. Maeve takes one of the Gryphons and detects a signal near a villa a few alleys away from
Troll Skull Manor near Seradon Street. She comes back to tell us.

We go over the villa. It's walled in and appears to be fairly secure. Maeve asks who lives there. Someone tells us that
Lord and Lady Gralhund (sp?) live there. The villa has 12' high stone walls with ornate iron gates. We can see a yard
with a two story brick mansion. Maeve casts invisibility on Mystiq, who flies to a balcony on the manison and hears an
obvious battle. She looks through windows in the doors but doesn't see anyone. She checks the door and springs a needle
trap. She picks the lock and goes in. As she goes in, a woman wearhing a breastplate with a rapier and a half orc back
into the room. They're fighting some people who are dressed like the Zenturum (sp?).

We enter the yard and are attacked by a cult fanatic and two mastiffs. We quickly take care of them and go to the
mansion. We enter the mansion to find two thugs standing over 8 bodies. They immediately attack us.

## 2024-08-03

We quickly defeat the thugs, and go upstairs to find three thugs attacking a group of veterans who are protecting lady
Graalhund. We help the veterans kill the thugs then go to the adjacent room to talk to Lady Graalhund and a half orc
standing next to her. The lady talks to the half orc, who takes out a pouch and gives us five GP each. We ask her why
the Zentaurum attacked her and her family, and she just said that they kept asking for an artifact and she doesn't know
what they were referring to. We ask if she has any more information aboout the Zentaurum. We go out of the room and take
out the nimblewright detector. The detector is not spinning anymore. We leave the manor then go back to Troll Skull
Manor and take a rest.

In the morning, we go talk to Lady Graalhund to see if she has some more information. As we're walking over, we continue
using the nimblewright detector. We notice a slightly increased presence of the city guard in this area and a young boy
comes across the street and brings us a note. Maeve gives him a piece of sliver. The note is from Istrid Horne. We're
supposed to meet her in the city of the dead.

As we approach the manor, we see members of the city guard everywhere. From the gate where we entered last time, we can
see Lady Graalhund speaking to some investigators, so we leave and go to the City of the Dead, using the mimblewright
dectector along the way. The detector doesn't resact. When we arrive, we see a male dwarf standing at the base of a
statue. We talk to the dwarf for a while. We talk to the dwarf and quickly learn that it's Istrid in disguise. She asks
us if we can help her lie low for a while. We offer to let her stay at Troll Skull manor, and she offers us 20 platinum
today and another 20 platinum at the end of the ten-day. She also offers to do some chores.

When we get back to the manor, our ghost throws a broken chair at Istriid. A cat also approaches us and says that the
city guard is looking for help catching a necromancer.

We're supposed to go up to level 4 next week.

## 2024-08-10

We decide to go to the Yawning Portal to talk to Ambrose about the necromancer. As we're walking to the tavern, Mystiq
notices a halfling that appears to be watching us from a leatherworks store. I talk to the clerk, and she offers me some
Van Bracers. I purchase them, and they'll give me a non-magical +1 to my armor class. Maeve keeps an eye on the hobit,
who has crossed the street, and appears to be keeping an eye on us. The shopkeeper's name is Aliyah Deerrunner. She has
some tribal looking tattoos and braids in her hair. We continue to the Yawning Portal.

We make it to the Yawning Portal just in time for lunch. We order food and drinks and begin munching. Someone orders us
a round of drinks. The halfling that we saw berfore enters and makes a beeline to our table. He bows with a flourish and
he introduces himself as Gordo. We see a gold pin in the shape of a harp. We get another round of drinks. He says that
he wants to welcome us to Waterdeep and ask us of we need anything. He says that he loves to collect stories, and that
he is working on a poem about our early exploits at the Yawning Portal. Sir Ambrose has been spending a lot of time in
the City of the Dead.

We wait a little longer, and a tall knight comes striding in, and goes to a table where some other people are
sitting. He stand there until they leave then sits down. We are to pursue a necromancer who is stealing bones and
animating them. They must be caught and stopped. Sir Ambrose has seen skeletons and zombies. We are to meet him at the
City of the Dead at dusk.

We arrive at the City of the Dead, meet Sir Ambrose, and split up to patrol the area. The night passes quietly, and we
meet Sir Ambrose. He says that he'd like us to help for the next nine days. We return to Troll Skull manor. Istriid has
made significant progress on the manor and expects to have beer on tap after a few days. We see some movement at the
corner of the bar. It's a mug being lifted off of the bar. Istriid says that she's working on it, and the mug slowly
lowers back down.

We eat then search for the nimblewright. We don't get any hits, but Maeve notices a street urchin attempting to steal an
apple from a cart. We meet up with Sir Ambrose. We patrol the south while he patrols then north. Nothing happens on the
next three nights. After the third night, the dwarf is testing out one of the taps. It's a little too foamy, but it's at
least getting closer. We see peanuts floating into a dish at the end of the bar. Jester thanks the poltergeist. We wake
up grab food, wander around the city with no encounters. We do get a brief hit on the nimblewright detector. The his is
to the south, but it stops almost immediately. We go a litle further; it starts spinning and then it stops. Mystiq flies
up to see if she can see anything. Maeve uses her survival skills to see if she can track the nimblewright we didn't
find it, but we have someplace to start. We go back to the City of the Dead. Nothing happens that night, and we don't
see the sheep or the shepherd. We go to pick up Maeve's van braces.
